-*-text-*-
$Id: CREDITS,v 1.4 2003/03/27 08:40:03 peterlin Exp $

This file lists the contributors and contributions to the free UCS
scalable font project.


* URW++ Design & Development GmbH <http://www.urwpp.de/>

URW++ donated a set of 35 core PostScript Type 1 fonts to the
Ghostscript project <http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/>, to be available
under the terms of GNU General Public License (GPL).

	Basic Latin				(U+0041-U+007A)
	Latin-1 Supplement                      (U+00C0-U+00FF)
	Latin Extended-A                        (U+0100-U+017F)
	Spacing Modifier Letters		(U+02B0-U+02FF)
	Mathematical Operators			(U+2200-U+22FF)
	Block Elements				(U+2580-U+259F)
	Dingbats				(U+2700-U+27BF)


* Yannis Haralambous <yannis.haralambous AT enst-bretagne.fr> and John
  Plaice <plaice AT omega.cse.unsw.edu.au>

Yannis Haralambous and John Plaice are the authors of Omega
typesetting system, <http://omega.cse.unsw.edu.au/>. Omega is an
extension of TeX. Its first release, aims primarily at improving TeX's
multilingual abilities. In Omega all characters and pointers into
data-structures are 16-bit wide, instead of 8-bit, thereby eliminating
many of the trivial limitations of TeX. Omega also allows multiple
input and output character sets, and uses programmable filters to
translate from one encoding to another, to perform contextual
analysis, etc. Internally, Omega uses the universal 16-bit Unicode
standard character set, based on ISO-10646. These improvements not
only make it a lot easier for TeX users to cope with multiple or
complex languages, like Arabic, Indic, Khmer, Chinese, Japanese or
Korean, in one document, but will also form the basis for future
developments in other areas, such as native color support and
hypertext features. ... Fonts for UT1 (omlgc family) and UT2 (omah
family) are under development: these fonts are in PostScript format
and visually close to Times and Helvetica font families. (from the
Omega WWW site). Omega fonts are available subject to GPL
<http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/help/Catalogue/entries/omegafonts.html>.

	Latin Extended-B                        (U+0180-U+024F)
	IPA Extensions				(U+0250-U+02AF)
	Greek					(U+0370-U+03FF)
	Armenian				(U+0530-U+058F)
	Hebrew					(U+0590-U+05FF)
	Arabic					(U+0600-U+06FF)
	Currency Symbols			(U+20A0-U+20CF)
	Arabic Presentation Forms-A		(U+FB50-U+FDFF)
	Arabic Presentation Forms-B		(U+FE70-U+FEFF)


* Valek Filippov <frob AT df.ru>

Valek Filippov added Cyrillic glyphs and composite Latin Extended A to
the whole set of the abovementioned URW set of 35 PostScript core
fonts, <ftp://ftp.gnome.ru/fonts/urw/>. The fonts are available under
GPL.

	Latin Extended-A                        (U+0100-U+017F)
	Cyrillic				(U+0400-U+04FF)


* Wadalab Kanji Comittee

Between April 1990 and March 1992, Wadalab Kanji Comittee put together
a series of scalable font files with Japanese scripts, in four forms:
Sai Micho, Chu Mincho, Cho Kaku and Saimaru. The font files are
written in custom file format, while tools for conversion into
Metafont and PostScript Type 1 are also supplied. The Wadalab Kanji
Comittee has later been dismissed, and the resulting files can be now
found on the FTP server of the Depertment of Mathematical Engineering
and Information Physics, Faculty of Engineering, University of Tokyo
<ftp://ftp.ipl.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp/Font/>.

	Hiragana				(U+3040-U+309F)
	Katakana				(U+30A0-U+30FF)


* Young U. Ryu <ryoung AT utdallas.edu>

Young Ryu is the author of Txfonts, a set of mathematical symbols
designed to accompany text typeset in Times or its variants. In the
documentation, Young adresses the design of mathematical symbols: "The
Adobe Times fonts are thicker than the CM fonts. Designing math fonts
for Times based on the rule thickness of Times = , , + , / , < ,
etc. would result in too thick math symbols, in my opinion. In the TX
fonts, these glyphs are thinner than those of original Times
fonts. That is, the rule thickness of these glyphs is around 85% of
that of the Times fonts, but still thicker than that of the CM fonts."
TX fonts are are distributed under the GNU public license
(GPL). Pointers to their location are available on
<http://www.utdallas.edu/~ryoung/txfonts/>.

	Arrows					(U+2190-U+21FF)
	Mathematical Symbols			(U+2200-U+22FF)


* Angelo Haritsis <ah AT computer.org>

Angelo Haritsis has compiled a set of Greek Type 1 fonts, available on
<ftp://ftp.hellug.gr/pub/unix/linux/GREEK/fonts/greekXfonts-Type1-1.1.tgz>.
The glyphs from this source has been used to compose Greek glyphs in
FreeSans and FreeMono.

Angelo's licence says: "You can enjoy free use of these fonts for
educational or commercial purposes.  All derived works should include
this paragraph.  If you want to change something please let me have
your changes (via email) so that they can go into the next
version. You can also send comments etc to the above address."

	Greek					(U+0370-U+03FF)


* Yannis Haralambous and Virach Sornlertlamvanich

In 1999, Yannis Haralambous and Virach Sornlertlamvanich made a set of
glyphs covering the Thai national standard NF3, in both upright and
slanted shape. The collection of glyphs have been made part of GNU
intlfonts 1.2 package and is available on
<ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/intlfonts/> under GPL.

	Thai					(U+0E00-U+0E7F)


* Shaheed R. Haque <srhaque AT iee.org>

Shaheed Haque has developed a basic set of basic Bengali glyphs
(without ligatures), using ISO10646 encoding. They are available under
the XFree86 license at <http://www.btinternet.com/~shaheedhaque/>.

Copyright (C) 2001 S.R.Haque <srhaque AT iee.org>.  All Rights Reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL S.R.HAQUE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of S.R.Haque shall not be
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from
S.R.Haque.

	Bengali					(U+0980-U+09FF)


* Sam Stepanyan <sam AT arminco.com>

Sam Stepanyan created a set of Armenian sans serif glyphs visually
compatible with Helvetica or Arial. Available on
<http://www.editum.com.ar/mashtots/html/fonts/ara.tar.gz>. On
2002-01-24, Sam writes: "Arial Armenian font is free for
non-commercial use, so it is OK to use under GPL license."

	Armenian				(U+0530-U+058F)


* Mohamed Ishan <ishan AT mitf.f2s.com>

Mohamed Ishan has started a Thaana Unicode Project
<http://thaana.sourceforge.net/> and among other things created a
couple of Thaana fonts, available under FDL or BDF license.

	Thaana					(U+0780-U+07BF)


* Sushant Kumar Dash <sushant AT writeme.com> (*)

Sushant Dash has created a font in his mother tongue, Oriya. As he
states on his web page <http://members.tripod.com/~sushantdash/>:
"Please feel free to foreword this mail to your Oriya friends. No
copyright law is applied for this font. It is totally free!!! Feel
free to modify this using any font editing tools. This is designed for
people like me, who are away from Orissa and want to write letters
home using Computers, but suffer due to unavailability of Oriya
fonts.(Or the cost of the available packages are too much)."

	Oriya					(U+0B00-U+0B7F)


* Harsh Kumar <harshkumar AT vsnl.com>

Harsh Kumar has started BharatBhasha <http://www.bharatbhasha.net/> -
an effort to provide "FREE software, Tutorial, Source Codes
etc. available for working in Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Gurmukhi and
Bangla. You can type text, write Web pages or develop Indian Languages
Applications on Windows and on Linux. We also offer FREE help to
users, enthusiasts and software developers for their work in Indian
languages."

	Devanagari				(U+0900-U+097F)
	Bengali					(U+0980-U+09FF)
	Gurmukhi				(U+0A00-U+0A7F)
	Gujarati				(U+0A80-U+0AFF)


* Prasad A. Chodavarapu <chprasad AT hotmail.com>

Prasad A. Chodavarapu created Tikkana, a Telugu font available in Type
1 and TrueType format on <http://chaitanya.bhaavana.net/fonts/>. 
Tikkana exceeds the Unicode Telugu range with some composite glyphs.
Available under the GNU General Public License.

	Telugu					(U+0C00-U+0C7F)


* Frans Velthuis <velthuis AT rc.rug.nl> and Anshuman Pandey
  <apandey AT u.washington.edu>

In 1991, Frans Velthuis from the Groningen University, The
Netherlands, released a Devanagari font as Metafont source, available
under the terms of GNU GPL. Later, Anshuman Pandey from the Washington
University, Seattle, USA, took over the maintenance of font. Fonts can
be found on CTAN, <ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/language/devanagari/>. I
converted the font to Type 1 format using Péter Szabó's TeXtrace
program <http://www.inf.bme.hu/~pts/textrace/> and removed some
redundant control points with PfaEdit.

	Devanagari				(U+0900-U+097F)


* Hardip Singh Pannu <HSPannu AT aol.com>

In 1991, Hardip Singh Pannu has created a free Gurmukhi TrueType font,
available as regular, bold, oblique and bold oblique form. Its license
says "Please remember that these fonts are copyrighted (by me) and are
for non-profit use only." 

	Gurmukhi				(U+0A00-U+0A7F)


* Jeroen Hellingman <jehe AT kabelfoon.nl>

Jeroen Hellingman created a set of Malayalam metafonts in 1994, and a
set of Oriya metafonts in 1996. Malayalam fonts were created as
uniform stroke only, while Oriya metafonts exist in both uniform and
modulated stroke. From private communication: "It is my intention to
release the fonts under GPL, but not all copies around have this
notice on them." Metafonts can be found on CTAN,
<ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/language/oriya/> and
<ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/language/malayalam/>.

	Oriya					(U+0B00-U+0B7F)
	Malayalam				(U+0D00-U+0D7F)


* Thomas Ridgeway <> (*)

Thomas Ridgeway, then at the Humanities And Arts Computing Center,
Washington University, Seattle, USA, (now defunct), created a Tamil
metafont in 1990. Anshuman Pandey from the same university took over
the maintenance of font. Fonts can be found at CTAN,
<ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/language/tamil/wntamil/>.

	Tamil					(U+0B80-U+0BFF)


* Berhanu Beyene <1beyene AT informatik.uni-hamburg.de>,
  Prof. Dr. Manfred Kudlek <kudlek AT informatik.uni-hamburg.de>, Olaf
  Kummer <kummer AT informatik.uni-hamburg.de>, and Jochen Metzinger <?>

Beyene, Kudlek, Kummer and Metzinger from the Theoretical Foundations
of Computer Science, University of Hamburg, prepared a set of Ethiopic
metafonts, found on
<ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/language/ethiopia/ethiop/>. They also
maintain home page on the Ethiopic font project,
<http://www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/TGI/mitarbeiter/wimis/kummer/ethiop_eng.html>,
and can be reached at <ethiop AT informatik.uni-hamburg.de>. The current
version of fonts is 0.7 (1998), and they are released under GNU GPL. I
converted the fonts to Type 1 format using Péter Szabó's TeXtrace
program <http://www.inf.bme.hu/~pts/textrace/> and removed some
redundant control points with PfaEdit.

	Ethiopic				(U+1200-U+137F)


* Maxim Iorsh <iorsh AT users.sourceforge.net>

In 2002, Maxim Iorsh started the Culmus project, aiming at providing
Hebrew-speaking Linux and Unix community with a basic collection of
Hebrew fonts for X Windows. The fonts are visually compatible with
URW++ Century Schoolbook L, URW++ Nimbus Sans L and URW++ Nimbus Mono
L families, respectively, and are released under GNU GPL license. See
also <http://culmus.sourceforge.net/>.

	Hebrew					(U+0590-U+05FF)


* Vyacheslav Dikonov <sdiconov AT mail.ru>

Vyacheslav Dikonov made a braille unicode font that could be merged
with the UCS fonts to fill the 2800-28FF range completely. (uniform
scaling is possible to adapt it to any cell size). He also contributed
a free syriac font, whose glyphs (about half of them) are borrowed
from the "Carlo Ator" font freely downloadable from
<http://www.aacf.asso.fr/>. Vyacheslav also filled in a few missing
spots in the U+2000-U+27FF area, e.g. the box drawing section, sets of
subscript and superscript digits and capital Roman numbers.

	Syriac					(U+0700-U+074A)
	Box Drawing				(U+2500-U+257F)
	Braille					(U+2800-U+28FF)


* M.S. Sridhar <mssridhar AT vsnl.com>

M/S Cyberscape Multimedia Limited, Mumbai, developers of Akruti
Software for Indian Languages (http://www.akruti.com/), have released
a set of TTF fonts for nine Indian scripts (Devanagari, Gujarati,
Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Bengali, Oriya, and Gurumukhi)
under the GNU General Public License (GPL). You can download the fonts
from the Free Software Foundation of India WWW site
(http://www.gnu.org.in/software/software.html#akruti) or from the
Akruti website.

For any further information or assistance regarding these fonts,
please contact mssridhar AT vsnl.com.

	Devanagari				(U+0900-U+097F)
	Bengali					(U+0980-U+09FF)
	Gurmukhi				(U+0A00-U+0A7F)
	Gujarati				(U+0A80-U+0AFF)
	Oriya					(U+0B00-U+0B7F)
	Tamil					(U+0B80-U+0BFF)
	Telugu					(U+0C00-U+0C7F)
	Kannada					(U+0C80-U+0CFF)	
	Malayalam				(U+0D00-U+0D7F)


* DMS Electronics, The Sri Lanka Tipitaka Project, and Noah Levitt
  <nlevitt AT columbia.edu>

Noah Levitt found out that the Sinhalese fonts available on the site
<http://www.metta.lk/fonts/> are released under GNU GPL, or,
precisely, "Public Domain under GNU Licence Produced by DMS
Electronics for The Sri Lanka Tipitaka Project" (taken from the font
comment), and took the effort of recoding the font to Unicode.

	Sinhala					(U+0D80-U+0DFF)
       

* Daniel Shurovich Chirkov <dansh AT chirkov.com>

Dan Chirkov updated the FreeSerif font with the missing Cyrillic
glyphs needed for conformance to Unicode 3.2. The effort is part of
the Slavjanskij package for Mac OS X,
<http://www.versiontracker.com/dyn/moreinfo/macosx/18680>.

	Cyrillic				(U+0400-U+04FF)


* Primo¾ Peterlin <primoz.peterlin AT biofiz.mf.uni-lj.si>

Primo¾ Peterlin filled in missing glyphs here and there (e.g. Latin
Extended-B and IPA Extensions ranges in the FreeMono familiy), and
created the following UCS blocks:

	Latin Extended-B                        (U+0180-U+024F)
	IPA Extensions				(U+0250-U+02AF)
	Arrows					(U+2190-U+21FF)
	Box Drawing				(U+2500-U+257F)
	Block Elements				(U+2580-U+259F)
	Geometrical Shapes			(U+25A0-U+25FF)


Notes:

*: The glyph collection looks license-compatible, but its author has
   not yet replied and agreed on his/her work being used in part of
   this glyph collection.
